1) How many types of tasks?
	We have different types of tasks, 
	WE have account aggregation task to aggregate accounts.
	WE have groups aggregation task to aggregate groups.
	also we do have perform maintenance task (PMT) with many available options, which runs for every 5 mins by Deafult.
	we have Refresh task with many available options. 
	Peform identity Reqeust Maintenance Task to scan the Access Requests.
	we also have Prune identity Cube Task (PICT) to delete Identities without having any applicaton references.
	
	1.1 Can we make PMT to execute for every 10min/30min/whatever ?
	Yeah we can make it to run for every 10min 
	1.2 where do you configure?
	We can schedule from Tasks Menu
	1.3 What will be done by PMT?
		--It will process background workflows
		--Moves the campaign phase to different phase, if time period expires for that particular phases
		--close campaigns(Certifications)
		--Prune aged sailpoint objects such as taskresults, provisioningTransactions, syslog
	1.4 What are Aged SailPoint Objects?
		--Objects which are older than Object Expiration value in IdentityIQ Configureation of Global Settings.
	1.5 Where did you configure max days for TaskResults, provisioningTransactions and syslog?
		--From the global settings using IdentityIQ configuration we can set the Object Expiraton. if we set TaskResults/provisioningTransactions/syslog to 100 Days, PM task will delete TaskResults/provisioningTransactions/syslog which are created gretet than 100 days.
	
2) can you explain rules?
	We have different types of rules available in the SailPoint such as 
	preiterate rule, 
	build map rule, 
	customisaton rule, 
	correlation rule, 
	identity creation rule, 
	manager correlation rule and
	Post Iterate Rule.
	Also we have certification Rules and workflow rules.

3) what is schema?
	Schema is two types
	Account Schema - List of attributes which represents Account Object is called Account Schema.
	Groups Schema - List of attributes which represents Group Object is called Group Schema.
4) If you make any changes in target system will it get reflected in iiq?
	Yeah it will reflect in identityIQ, How?
	By using aggregation task all the updates will be loaded into SailPoint IdentityIQ.
	
5) What is role mining?
	Role mining is nothing but creation of rules using SailPont Role Mining Concept.
	We have IT Role Mining to create IT Roles.
	We have Bussiness Role Mining to create Bussiness Roles.
	
	5.1 How do you mine roles?
	It is based on IdentityAttrbute. 
	
6) How many ways we can create identities?
	We can create identities in different ways
	By Running Authoritative aggregation identites will be created in the SailPoint idenityIQ.
	By using Create Identity Quick Link we can create.
	By Using Self Service Registration as well we can create identities.
	
	We have other option as well but not good way of creating identities is, 
	
	When correlation fails uncorrelated identity cubes will be created in the system.
	
7) Lifecycle events?
	We have different Life Cycle Events
	 1. Joiner - an employee who is onboarding/joining the organisation.
	 2. Mover  - an employee who is changing Departments/change manager in the organisation.
	 3. Leaver - an employee who is offboarding/leaving the organisation.
	 4. Rehire - an employee who rejoing the same organisation is called Rehire.
	
	7.1 when life cycle events will trgger in SailPoint?
	when we run refresh identity cube task with options "proces events" and "provisioning assignments" are enabled.

	7.2 When will joiner life cycle event will trigger?
	when an identitycube creates for the first time in the identityWarehouse, it will trigger the Joiner Life Cycle event in the next Identity Refresh Task.
	mostly we use Joiner LIfe Cycle event to create Accounts on the Different Target Systems.
	
8) What is Authoritative Application?
   The  authoritative application is the main repository for employee information for your enterprise, for example a human resources application.
   It is the data source from which majority of identity cubes are created.
	
9) What is LCM?
	LCM stands for Life Cycle Manager. 
	A component in the SailPoint IdentityIQ, 
	Life Cycle Module (LCM) provides Life cycle Events such as joiner,leaver, mover and rehire.
	It also provides Manage Access and Self Service Management.

10) What is connector?
     A connector is a software component used to connect to the target system.
     Ex: Delimited file connector, JDBC (java Database connectivity), Workday Connector, ACtive DIrectory, etc
     We have around 70+ connnectors in SailPoint idnetityIQ.

     Connector Types
     1. Not well Defined Connector (Disconnected Applications)
	    examples are Delimited connector , JDBC Connector, etc ............... 
	    -Schema is Empty - we have to manually create schema
	    -Provisioning Frame work - doesn't support. we have to mange manually 
     2. Well Defined connector (Connected Applications)
	    examples are Active Directory, LDAP, Workday,OpenLDAP  etc...... 
	    -Schema comes by default
	     -Provisioning Frame work by default

11) What is native Rules?
     Rule which are responsible to make changes in the Target Application, Target Application Specific Rules.
	 For Example, In SailPoint We have Active Directory Connector which supports Native Rules.
	 we have after create rule, which will be invoked after account creation in Active Directory. 
	 In After Create Rule we can trigger powershell methods to execute on AD Side.

12) How you import Entitlements in iiq?
	 We can import Entitlements in Sailpoint by using import option which is available in Entitlement Catalog.
	
	11.1 How do you create Entitlements in the SailPoint?
	Using Group Aggregation task we can load Entitlements into the SailPoint IdentityIQ.
	11.2 How do you create Entitlements in the Target System?
	By Using "Add New Entitlement" Option in the Entitlement Catalog. Provisioning plan will generate and given to the "LCM Provisioning" workflow to create in the Target System.

13) what is workflow?
	 Workflows within IdentityIQ are called Bussiness Processes. Workflow consists of different steps which are responsilble for drive the provisioning plan with associated approvals and to complete the provisioning.

14) How do you create custom Connector Or any unknow Question?
	 I didn't get chance to work on Custom Connector, if i get opportunity to work, i am happy to work on that item.

15) what is the provisioning policy?
	Provisioning Policy is nothing but a form, which provides the attributes which are mandatory to complete the Provisioning.
	
16) what is certifications? Why do we go for certifications?
     Definiation : Reviewing user's access/entitlements is called certification(Access Review)
	 or 
	 Reviewing users entitlements is called certification (Access Review)
	 -->	To Review the user access.
	  16.1 Catagories of Certfication
			1. Periodic Certifications (Based on Frequency Weekly, Monthly, Anually )
			2. Contineous Certification (Always runs )
	  16.2 What are different types of Campaigns
		    We have different types of Certifications
			1. Targeted Certification  
			2. Manager Certification - Manger will review his direct reportees access wheather they have proper access or not? { Certifier/Reviewer = Manager }
			3. Application Owner Certification - App Owner will review all the accounts from that application. { certifier/Reviewer = Application Owner}
			4. Entitlement Owner Certification - Entitlement Owner Will review/certifiy the user access. { Certifier/Reviewer = Entitlement Owner} 
			5. Advanced Certification - Allows for creation of custom certifications based on Groups or Populations. {Certifier = Group Owner} 
			6. Role Membership Certification - Role Owner Will review/certifiy the user access. { Certifier = role Owner}
			7. Account Group Permissions - To Review the permissions of an Account Group.
17) Explain about Certification Life Cycle.
	  Certification Life Cycle
			  1. Generation 		: During Generation Cetifications will generate. we have to specify what to certify, when to certify and who should certify.
			  2. Staging phase 		: This is a optional phase, We can enable or disable Staging Period. It allows us to preview or check certification.  
			  3. Active phase 		: During Active phase, Certifier will review the access. If Certifier finds access is appropriate, he will approve the access. If certifier finds access is inappropriate, he will revoke the access. 
			  4. challenge			: challenging the decision. This is optional phase. We didn't configure in our project. we can challeng the decision.
			  5. Revocation phase/	
				 Remediation Phase 	: Revocations will complete in Remediation phase.
18) Explain about Active Phase in detail.
		--> PreDelegation 	: Certifcation will be delegated to the another reviwer as part of certification generation.
		--> Delegation   	: A Delegated person can review the access, once delegated person completes, certification will go to original Reviewer, Original Reviewer can take any decision. original review's decision is the final decision.
								Even Access Review delegated still original reviewer can see certification items.
		--> Reassignment 	: Once Access Review(Certification) reassigned original Reviewer can't take any decision. there will be no work item once certificaiton is reassigned. 			
		-->	Escalation 		: When Origianl reviewer doesn't take any decision for number of days, that access review will be escalated as per the configuration. 
			
		Note:-Once certifier signoff you can't change your decision.

19) Have you worked on Certification Rules?
	Yeah i have worked on Certification rules like exclusion rule and predelegation rule. 

20) What is exclusion rule? what is the return type?

	20.1 what is itemsToExclude ?
	20.2 what is CertificationEntity

21) What is predelegation rule? what is the return type?
	Pre-Delegation Rule runs during the certification generation and pre-delegated to new certifier. Using Predelegation rule we can also do reasssigment as well?
	return type of predelegation rule is String.
	
22) How do you do Reassingment using Certification Rules? or How do you acheive reassignment in certification?
     Ans: To do Reassignment in certification we have to use Predelegation rule.

23) In certification if something went wrong how will u recorrect it?
	Once certification is generated SailPoint doesn't allow to make changes to the certification configuration. If we enable the staging phase we can cancel the campaign and generate a new campaign.

24) If manager went into inactive position and he couldn't complete access reviews which assigned to him? what are the actions we can take on these Access Reviews?
	Certification Owner can reassign the Access Reviews to another person.
	Or 
	we can wait to escalation happen, then It escalates to managers manager automatically.

25)	How will u do self certifications?
	we are not allowing self certifications in our environment, Certification Owner will reassing to appropriate person.

	
25) How do you use Build Map Rule?

26) How many connector rules do u have used? or worked on it? For which applications u have used?
	Yeah we have different connector rules,  We have preiterate rule, post iterate rule and buildMap Rule.
	
27) What is pre-iterate rule? For which connector u will use? In which use case u have used?

28) Difference between build map rule and customized rule?

28) What is BirthRight Provisioning ?
	Accessing basic and mandatory things by defalut without asking any permission is called BirthRight Provisioning.
	or
	When an employee joins in the Enterprise. Employee needs some basic and mandatory access like accessing system, Email Access and etc....

29) How you have done birth right Provisioning?
	Yeah I have done BirthRight Provisioning. We have different ways to do BirthRight Provisioning. 
	
	different ways 
	1. Joiner Life Cycle Event
	2. RBAC Model 
	3. Using quick links we can trigger Workflows to provisioing madatory access.
	
	I have configured BirthRight Provisioning using RBAC Model. 
	
	How do you setup BirthRight Provisioning using RBAC Model?
	
	I have created a Bussiness Role with Assignement rule as Match List. also added two IT Roles.
	These IT Roles are added with Entitlements.
	
29) what are different available options at Assignment Rule?
	Matchlist, Filter, Script, Population and Rule
	
30) Manager forgot his password, u got requset from him to reset the passsword. Then how will u fix it? How many ways are there?
	From Identity Warehouse we can reset password. or
	Using Manage Account Quick Link we can reset Manager Password. or
	I will request on behalf of my Manager to reset password.
	
33) provisioning policies- where, when we have to use?
	In Application definition only have provisioning Polices, we have different provisioning polices such as Create, Update, Disable, Enable and Delete.
	 Create - If requestee dont have an account,sailpoint will generate accountrequest as create by considering create provisioning policy
	 Modify - When user requested for new entitlement
	 Modify - When user requested for removal of entitlement
	 Disable - When we need to disable account
	 Enable - When we need to enable account
	 Delete - When we need to delete account

	 Requestee - Person to whom we place the request.
	 Requestor - Person who places the request.
	 
34) What is provisioning Plan?
	Object representation of the request is called provisioning plan.
	which includes AccountRequest, AttributeRequest, requestor and requestee information.

35) What is AccountRequest?
	AccountRequst is basically list of changes which requested on account, which includes attribute requests.
	or 
	AccountRequst is basically Request made to change account object is called AccountRequest.
	We have different AccountRequest Types. These are Create, Modify, Enable, Disable, Lock, Unlock and Delete 
	
36) What is AttributeRequest?
	AttributeRequst is basically requested attribute changes on attribute level.
	or
	AttributeRequst is basically Request made to change attribute value is called attributeRequest.

	Requestor: The person who places request.
	Requestee: The person to whom request raised

	provisioning Plan includes account Requst and 
	Account Request includes attributeRequests

37) How the Account schema attribute is populated? If I have added two more attributes then how or where it will be populated?
	Attribute which added in the Account Schema will be populated when we run the Account Aggregation Task. From the Accounts tab we can see this value on any account.

38) What is the importance of schema definition?
	It is a main step of integration, It makes each account unique by having Unique identity Attribute. Schema also defines list of attribute that needs to be load from the Targated system.

39) How the data is reflecting in the preview? Does it also load accounts into IIQ Database before aggregation?
	Preview is Read Operation. When we click on preview button IIQ will read data from the Targated system and represents in the Preview but it will not load into IdentityIQ Database. 

40) What are the different ways to do Preview in IIQ?
	Using Preview button in the Application definition and
	From IIQ Console we can do preview using connectorDebug command.
	commond - connectorDebug "App Name" iterate account
	commond - connectorDebug "App Name" iterate group
	
41) Can we do Test Connection from IIQ Console?
	Yes we can do 
	connectorDebug "App Name" test
	
42) What is the difference between checkout and export commonds?

	Export commond will export all the objects of the specified type. 
	export -clean apps.xml Application
	Checkout Commond will export only specified object.
	checkout Application "HighJump One" HighJumpOne.xml -clean

43) How do you export SailPoint Objects(Application, Rule, workflow, Role, Workgroup, TaskDefinition) ?
	We have different ways to export Sailpoint Objects
	1. Using Object Exporter Task.
	2. Using IIQ console we can export sailpoint Objects - checkout "Sailpoint object Name" "fileName" -clean= id,created, modified
	3. We can also copy object from debug page, but not recommended.

44) what is the difference between Preview and Preview at IIQ Console?
	In the Preview at application definition can able to see only 10 accounts.
	In the Preview at IIQConsole we can see all the accounts from the application.

45) How to run Refresh task on single Identity Cube?
	We can setup the filter in the refresh task like name == "nameOfTheIdentity"
46) How to run Refresh task on for all the users in a specfice application?
	We can setup the filter in the refresh task like links.application.name == "nameOfTheSpecificApplication"

47) I wanted to create a cerification not based on manager or anything based but based on attribute i have to create certification. How will u create it?
	I think i didn't get it exactly, Can you plese rephrase it?
	We have two ways to do this. 
	First Option is, using the Targated Certification we can define the filter with required attribute and setup the campaign.
	Another Option is, using the Advanced Certification we can choose populations or groups and setup the campaign.

48) I wanted create certifications for some groups in that i wanted exclude some identities or groups  then how will do it?
	Yeah we can exclude identities or groups by writing exlcusion rule. we have to check the certificationItesm from the certificationEntity wheather that needs to be exculded or not. If it needs to be excluded we have to added that certificationItem to the list itemsToExclude.

	48.1 what is the return type of Exclusion Rule?
	Return type is explanation which is nothing but String Object.

49) When we will go for advanced certifications?
	using the Advanced Certification we can setup campaigns for the populations or groups.

50) If employee is being in any department that time he should not get any emails or notifications. How will you fix it?
	I didn't get chance to work on this type of requirement. 

51) What is the User of IIQProperties File?
	One of the most importatnt files to work Sailpoint is IIQProperties file.
	IIQProperties files has information about what type of database being used by SailPoint and authentication information to connect to this Database. It has autentication information for identityIq Database and identityIqPlugin database.


52) waht is sAMAccountName In AD?
	One of the unique attribute in the Active directory System. this also works as login name to login to the account.

53) Tell me about sailpoint architecture?
	We have total four environments available these are sbx, dev, preprod and prod.

	No of batch and ui servers are same in the preprod and prod.
	SBX - 1 server, 1 IQ Server and DB server
	DEV - 1 Batch,  1 UI , 1 IQ Server and DB server
	Pre - 2 Batch, 2 UI server, 2 IQ Servers and DB server
	Prod - 2 Batch 2 UI Server, 2 IQ Servers and DB server

	we have two IQ Servers in Prod and Preprod.
	for dev and sbx we have dedicated IQServers.
54) What is IQ Server?

	IQ Server is a intermedidate component to full fill the provisioning Request in the ACtive Directory Domain. 
	SailPoint doesn't have capability to provision into the Active Directory so SailPoint depends on IQServer to proces the provisioning request.

	54.1 Without IQ Server can we do test connection ?
	Yes without IQServer as well we can do test connection, IQServer is not mandatory but we can't provision.
	54.2 Without IQServer can we aggregate Accounts and Groups from Active directory into SailPoint?
	Yes, without IQServer as well we can aggregate accounts and groups in to SailPoint but we can't provision.


55) What is rouge account? What is the use of it?
	Active Accounts which are on the Target system without having associated Active User.


56) Difference between LDAP server and JDBC?
	LDAP is Light Weigh Directory Access Protocal. simply it a directory service. Examples are Active Directory, Open LDAP
	JDBC is Java Database Connectivity to connect to the different databases like MSSQL, mySQL, Oracle, etc.
57) What is a link? HOw can we implement a link?
	
58) If u have troubleshoot how will u find a error?
59) How do u execute rules?
   	Using loggers.. What  kind of logger u have used?
60) Write any rule in sailpoint.
61) IIQ installation process.







Q) what is SPRight, Capability and Workgroup

Right 		-	These rights control access on the SailPoint UI.
SailPoint object name SPRight
Capability 	-	We can define Capability as set of SPRights.
SailPoint object name is Capability
				viewAdminConsole has three rights (task, provisioning and environment)
Workgroup	-	We can define Workgroup as set of Capabilites and set of identities.

	



To-DO
1. Certification with Rules (exclusion rule and predelegation rule) and reminders.
2. provisioning Policy - HighJump
3. Life Cycle Event Realtime Demo SDG

Java
1. Collections
2. Strings
3. JDBC Programme
3. One Web Application

Java Questions
17) what is overloading and overriding?
18) what is List?
19) what is constructor?
20) what is the difference between HashSet and LinkedHashSet
21) What is the Deligation?
12) what is DriverManager
13) What is Connection 
->Difference between hash map and hash table?
->What is synchronizede?
->How to configure a workflow?
->Difference between applicaion server and web server?
->Encapsulation in oops with real time example.
->Questions on String handling